---
title: OCS Service
date: 2024-11-21T00:26:36.398421401Z
weight: 20
geekdocRepo: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis
geekdocEditPath: edit/master/services/ocs
geekdocFilePath: README.md
geekdocCollapseSection: true
---

<!-- Do not edit this file, it is autogenerated. Edit the service README.md instead -->

## Abstract


The `ocs` service (open collaboration services) serves one purpose: it has an endpoint for signing keys which the web frontend accesses when uploading data.


## Table of Contents

* [Signing-Keys Endpoint](#signing-keys-endpoint)
* [Signing-Keys Store](#signing-keys-store)
* [Example Yaml Config](#example-yaml-config)

## Signing-Keys Endpoint

The `ocs` service contains an endpoint `/cloud/user/signing-key` on which a user can GET a signing key. Note, this functionality might be deprecated or moved in the future.

## Signing-Keys Store

To authenticate presigned URLs the proxy service needs to read the signing keys from a store that is populated by the ocs service.
Possible stores that can be configured via `OCS_PRESIGNEDURL_SIGNING_KEYS_STORE` are:
  -   `nats-js-kv`: Stores data using key-value-store feature of [nats jetstream](https://docs.nats.io/nats-concepts/jetstream/key-value-store)
  -   `redis-sentinel`: Stores data in a configured Redis Sentinel cluster.
  -   `ocisstoreservice`:  Stores data in the legacy ocis store service. Requires setting `OCS_PRESIGNEDURL_SIGNING_KEYS_STORE_NODES` to `com.owncloud.api.store`.

The `memory` or `ocmem` stores cannot be used as they do not share the memory from the ocs service signing key memory store, even in a single process.

Make sure to configure the same store in the proxy service.

Store specific notes:
  -   When using `redis-sentinel`, the Redis master to use is configured via e.g. `OCS_PRESIGNEDURL_SIGNING_KEYS_STORE_NODES` in the form of `<sentinel-host>:<sentinel-port>/<redis-master>` like `10.10.0.200:26379/mymaster`.
  -   When using `nats-js-kv` it is recommended to set `PROXY_PRESIGNEDURL_SIGNING_KEYS_STORE_NODES` to the same value as `OCS_PRESIGNEDURL_SIGNING_KEYS_STORE_NODES`. That way the proxy uses the same nats instance as the ocs service.
  -   When using `ocisstoreservice` the `OCS_PRESIGNEDURL_SIGNING_KEYS_STORE_NODES` must be set to the service name `com.owncloud.api.store`. It does not support TTL and stores the presigning keys indefinitely. Also, the store service needs to be started.
## Example Yaml Config
{{< include file="services/_includes/ocs-config-example.yaml"  language="yaml" >}}

{{< include file="services/_includes/ocs_configvars.md" >}}

