docs/extensions/settings/releasing.md, before:

---
title: "Releasing"
weight: 70
geekdocRepo: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis
geekdocEditPath: edit/master/docs/extensions/settings
geekdocFilePath: releasing.md
---

{{< toc >}}

## Releasing

After adding changes to the Settings package within oCIS and testing them locally, you want to update the compiled assets to the oCIS binary. 

To achieve this, you have run a Go command and add the results to your PR.

### Package Hierarchy

- [ocis](https://githug.com/owncloud/ocis)
    - [ocis-settings](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/tree/master/settings)

#### Updating ocis-settings

1. Make sure you are inside the [ocis repository](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis) and on your feature branch
2. Change into settings' asset package folder via `cd settings/pkg/assets`
3. Inside `settings/pkg/assets`, run `go generate`. The output should look something like this: `settings: embed.go - YYY/MM/DD ... to write [./embed.go] from config file ...`
4. Commit your changes, push them and [create a PR](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pulls)

Commit message:

Update accounts & settings release docs according to feedback

docs/extensions/settings/releasing.md, after:

---
title: "Releasing"
weight: 70
geekdocRepo: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis
geekdocEditPath: edit/master/docs/extensions/settings
geekdocFilePath: releasing.md
---

{{< toc >}}

## Requirements

You need a working installation of [the Go programming language](https://golang.org/) installed to build the assets for a working release.

## Releasing

After adding changes to the settings package within oCIS and testing them locally, you want to update the compiled assets to the oCIS binary. 

To achieve this, you have to run a Go command and add the results to your PR. The preferred way to do this is to run `make generate` in the root 
of the repository and then commit the resulting changes to your branch/PR. See below for a way to _only_ build the settings extension assets.

### Package Hierarchy

- [ocis](https://githug.com/owncloud/ocis)
    - [ocis-settings](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/tree/master/settings)

#### Updating ocis-settings

1. Make sure you are inside the [ocis repository](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis) and on your feature branch
2. Change into settings' asset package folder via `cd settings/pkg/assets`
3. Inside `settings/pkg/assets`, run `go generate`. The output should look something like this: `settings: embed.go - YYY/MM/DD ... to write [./embed.go] from config file ...`
4. Commit your changes, push them and [create a PR](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pulls)
