extensions/storage/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Storage"
date: 2018-05-02T00:00:00+00:00
weight: 20
geekdocRepo: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis
geekdocEditPath: edit/master/docs/extensions/storage
geekdocFilePath: _index.md
geekdocCollapseSection: true
---

## Abstract

This service provides an oCIS extension that wraps [reva](https://github.com/cs3org/reva/) and adds an opinionated configuration to it.

## Architecture Overview

The below diagram shows the oCIS services and the contained reva services within as dashed boxes. In general:
1. A request comes in at the proxy and is authenticated using OIDC.
2. It is forwarded to the oCIS frontend which handles ocs and ocdav requests by talking to the reva gateway using the CS3 API.
3. The gateway acts as a facade to the actual CS3 services: storage providers, user providers, group providers and sharing providers.

{{< svg src="extensions/storage/static/overview.drawio.svg" >}}

The dashed lines in the diagram indicate requests that are made to authenticate requests or lookup the storage provider:
1. After authenticating a request, the proxy may either use the CS3 `userprovider` or the accounts service to fetch the user information that will be minted into the `x-access-token`.
2. The gateway will verify the JWT signature of the `x-access-token` or try to authenticate the request itself, e.g. using a public link token.

{{< hint warning >}}
The bottom part is lighter because we will deprecate it in favor of using only the CS3 user and group providers after moving some account functionality into reva and glauth. The metadata storage is not registered in the reva gateway to separate metadata necessary for running the service from data that is being served directly.
{{< /hint >}}

## Endpoints and references

In order to reason about the request flow, two aspects in the architecture need to be understood well:
1. What kind of [*namespaces*]({{< ref "./namespaces.md" >}}) are presented at the different WebDAV and CS3 endpoints?
2. What kind of [*resource*]({{< ref "./terminology.md#resources" >}}) [*references*]({{< ref "./terminology.md#references" >}}) are exposed or required: path or id based?

Commit message:

commit 900dd5ad44ae2bbbd648369c32f8b29dd2864c79 Merge: b003bd70 97377e5b Author: Michael Barz <mbarz@owncloud.com> Date:   Fri Dec 10 14:42:27 2021 +0100
    Merge pull request #2318 from owncloud/cleanup-spaces-docs

    [docs-only] separate proposed changes from terminology

extensions/storage/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Storage"
date: 2018-05-02T00:00:00+00:00
weight: 20
geekdocRepo: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis
geekdocEditPath: edit/master/docs/extensions/storage
geekdocFilePath: _index.md
geekdocCollapseSection: true
---

## Overview

The storage extension wraps [reva](https://github.com/cs3org/reva/) and adds an opinionated configuration to provide two core services for the oCIS platform:
1. A [*Spaces Registry*]({{< ref "./spacesregistry.md" >}}) that acts as a dictionary for storage *Spaces* and their metadata
2. A [*Spaces Provider*]({{< ref "./spacesprovider.md" >}}) that organizes *Resources* in storage *Spaces* and persists them in an underlying *Storage System*

*Clients* will use the *Spaces Registry* to poll or get notified about changes in all *Spaces* a user has access to. Every *Space* has a dedicated `/dav/spaces/<spaceid>` WebDAV endpoint that is served by a *Spaces Provider* which uses a specific reva storage driver to wrap an underlying *Storage System*.

{{< svg src="extensions/storage/static/overview.drawio.svg" >}}

The dashed lines in the diagram indicate requests that are made to authenticate requests or lookup the storage provider:
1. After authenticating a request, the proxy may either use the CS3 `userprovider` or the accounts service to fetch the user information that will be minted into the `x-access-token`.
2. The gateway will verify the JWT signature of the `x-access-token` or try to authenticate the request itself, e.g. using a public link token.

{{< hint warning >}}
The bottom part is lighter because we will deprecate it in favor of using only the CS3 user and group providers after moving some account functionality into reva and glauth. The metadata storage is not registered in the reva gateway to separate metadata necessary for running the service from data that is being served directly.
{{< /hint >}}

## Endpoints and references

In order to reason about the request flow, two aspects in the architecture need to be understood well:
1. What kind of [*namespaces*]({{< ref "./namespaces.md" >}}) are presented at the different WebDAV and CS3 endpoints?
2. What kind of [*resource*]({{< ref "./terminology.md#resources" >}}) [*references*]({{< ref "./terminology.md#references" >}}) are exposed or required: path or id based?
{{< svg src="extensions/storage/static/storage.drawio.svg" >}}
