extensions/web/releasing.md, before:

---
title: "Releasing"
weight: 40
geekdocRepo: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis
geekdocEditPath: edit/master/docs/extensions/web
geekdocFilePath: releasing.md
---

{{< toc >}}

## Releasing

The next generation Web Frontend is shipped as an oCIS Extension. The `ocis-web` extension is also embedded in the single binary and part of the `ocis server` command.

To update this package within all the deliveries, we need to update the package in the following chain from the bottom to the top.

### Package Hierarchy

- [ocis](https://githug.com/owncloud/ocis)
    - [ocis-web](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/tree/master/web)
      - [ocis-pkg](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/tree/master/ocis-pkg)
      - [ownCloud Web](https://github.com/owncloud/web)

#### Prerequisites

Before updating the assets, make sure that [ownCloud Web](https://github.com/owncloud/web) has been released first
and take note of its release tag name.

#### Updating ocis-web

1. Create a branch `release-$version`. in <https://github.com/owncloud/ocis>
2. Create a Folder in `changelog` for the release version and date `mkdir $major.$minor.$patchVersion_YYYY-MM-DD`.
3. Move all changelog items from the `changelog/unreleased/` folder to the `$major.$minor.$patchVersion_YYYY-MM-DD` folder.
4. Update the go module `ocis-pkg` to the latest version <https://blog.golang.org/using-go-modules> .
5. Update the ownCloud Web asset by adjusting the value of `WEB_ASSETS_VERSION` at the top of the Makefile and specify the tag name of the latest [ownCloud Web release](https://github.com/owncloud/web/tags).
6. Run `make clean generate`.
7. Create a changelog item for the update in the `changelog/$major.$minor.$patchVersion_YYYY-MM-DD` folder.
8. Commit your changes.
9. After merging, wait for the CI to run on the merge commit.
10. Go to "Releases" in GH click "Draft a new Release".
11. Use `v$major.$minor.$patch` as a tag (the `v` prefix is important) and publish it.
12. The tag and the Release artifacts will be created automatically.

Commit message:

commit ebd863e73ea7f2f323654c8e43aa00abb68d0a15 Merge: e0eff6ee 255b872b Author: Pascal Wengerter <pascal@wengerter.info> Date:   Tue Mar 9 15:17:00 2021 +0000
    Merge pull request #1776 from owncloud/update-web-2.0.2

    Update web version to 2.0.2

extensions/web/releasing.md, after:

---
title: "Releasing"
weight: 40
geekdocRepo: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis
geekdocEditPath: edit/master/docs/extensions/web
geekdocFilePath: releasing.md
---

{{< toc >}}

## Releasing

The next generation Web Frontend is shipped as an oCIS Extension. The `ocis-web` extension is also embedded in the single binary and part of the `ocis server` command.

To update this package within all the deliveries, we need to update the package in the following chain from the bottom to the top.

### Package Hierarchy

- [ocis](https://githug.com/owncloud/ocis)
    - [ocis-web](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/tree/master/web)
      - [ocis-pkg](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/tree/master/ocis-pkg)
      - [ownCloud Web](https://github.com/owncloud/web)

#### Prerequisites

Before updating the assets, make sure that [ownCloud Web](https://github.com/owncloud/web) has been released first
and take note of its release tag name.

#### Updating ocis-web

1. Create a branch `update-web-$version` in the [ocis repository](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis)
2. Change into web package folder via `cd web`
3. Inside `web/`, update the `Makefile` so that the WEB_ASSETS_VERSION variable references the currently released version of https://github.com/owncloud/web
4. Inside `web/`, replace the current assets with newly released ones by running `make pull-assets`
5. Inside `web/`, run `make generate`. The output should look something like this: `web: embed.go - YYY/MM/DD ... to write [./embed.go] from config file ...`
6. Move to the changelog (`cd ../changelog/`) and add a changelog file to the `unreleased/` folder (You can copy an old web release changelog item as a template)
7. Move to the repo root (`cd ..`)and update the WEB_COMMITID in the `/.drone.env` file to the commit id from the released version (unless the existing commit id is already newer)
8. **Optional:** Test the changes locally by running `cd ocis && go run cmd/ocis/main.go server`, visiting [https://localhost:9200](https://localhost:9200) and confirming everything renders correctly
9. Commit your changes, push them and [create a PR](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pulls)
