ocis/deployment/bridge.md, before:

---
title: "Bridge"
date: 2020-02-27T20:35:00+01:00
weight: 30
geekdocRepo: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis
geekdocEditPath: edit/master/docs/ocis/deployment
geekdocFilePath: bridge.md
---

{{< toc >}}

We are planning to build a bridge from ownCloud 10 to ocis. The idea is to have a reverse proxy infront of ownCloud 10 that will forward requests to ownCloud 10 or ocis-reva, depending on the migration status of the logged in user.

This document is a work in progress of the current setup.

## Current status

Using ocis and the ownCloud 10 openidconnect and graphapi plugins it is possible today to introduce openid connect based authentication to existing instances. That is a prerequisite for migrating to ocis.

## How to do it

### Install the owncloud 10 graphapi app

In an owncloud 10 apps folder
```
$ git clone git@github.com:owncloud/graphapi.git
$ cd graphapi
$ composer install
```

### Enable the graphapi app

```
occ a:e graphapi
```

No configuration necessary. You can test with `curl`:
```console
$ curl https://cloud.example.com/index.php/apps/graphapi/v1.0/users -u admin | jq
Enter host password for user 'admin':
  % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
                                 Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
100   694  100   694    0     0   4283      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--  4283
{
  "value": [
    {
      "id": "admin",
      "displayName": "admin",
      "mail": null
    },
    {
      "id": "demo",
      "displayName": "Demo",
      "mail": null
    },
    ...

  ],
  "@odata.nextLink": "https://oc.butonic.de/apps/graphapi/v1.0/users?$top=10&$skip=10"
}
```

> Note: The MS graph api actually asks for `Bearer` auth, but in order to check users passwords during an LDAP bind we are exploiting ownClouds authentication implementation that will grant access when `Basic` auth is used. An LDAP Bind you may ask? Read on!

### Start ocis-glauth

We are going to use the above ownCloud 10 and graphapi app to turn it into the datastore for an LDAP proxy.

#### Grab it!

In an `ocis` folder
```
$ git clone git@github.com:owncloud/ocis-glauth.git
$ cd ocis-glauth
$ make
```
This should give you a `bin/ocis-glauth` binary. Try listing the help with `bin/ocis-glauth --help`.


#### Run it!

You need to point `ocis-glauth` to your owncloud domain:
```console
$ bin/ocis-glauth --log-level debug server --backend-datastore owncloud --backend-server https://cloud.example.com --backend-basedn dc=example,dc=com
```

`--log-level debug` is only used to generate more verbose output
`--backend-datastore owncloud` switches to tho owncloud datastore
`--backend-server https://cloud.example.com` is the url to an ownCloud instance with an enabled graphapi app
`--backend-basedn dc=example,dc=com` is used to construct the LDAP dn. The user `admin` will become `cn=admin,dc=example,dc=com`.

#### Check it is up and running

You should now be able to list accounts from your ownCloud 10 oc_accounts table using:
```console
$ ldapsearch -x -H ldap://localhost:9125 -b dc=example,dc=com -D "cn=admin,dc=example,dc=com" -W '(objectclass=posixaccount)'
```

Groups should work as well:
```console
$ ldapsearch -x -H ldap://localhost:9125 -b dc=example,dc=com -D "cn=admin,dc=example,dc=com" -W '(objectclass=posixgroup)'
```

> Note: This is currently a readonly implementation and minimal to the usecase of authenticating users with konnectd.

### Start ocis-web

#### Get it!

In an `ocis` folder
```
$ git clone git@github.com:owncloud/ocis.git
$ cd web
$ make
```
This should give you a `bin/web` binary. Try listing the help with `bin/web --help`.

#### Run it!

Point `ocis-web` to your owncloud domain and tell it where to find the openid connect issuing authority:
```console
$ bin/web server --web-config-server https://cloud.example.com --oidc-authority https://192.168.1.100:9130 --oidc-metadata-url https://192.168.1.100:9130/.well-known/openid-configuration --oidc-client-id ocis
```

`ocis-web` needs to know
- `--web-config-server https://cloud.example.com` is ownCloud url with webdav and ocs endpoints (oc10 or ocis)
- `--oidc-authority https://192.168.1.100:9130` the openid connect issuing authority, in our case `oidc-konnectd`, running on port 9130
- `--oidc-metadata-url https://192.168.1.100:9130/.well-known/openid-configuration` the openid connect configuration endpoint, typically the issuer host with `.well-known/openid-configuration`, but there are cases when another endpoint is used, eg. ping identity provides multiple endpoints to separate domains
- `--oidc-client-id ocis` the client id we will register later with `ocis-konnectd` in the `identifier-registration.yaml`

### Start ocis-konnectd

#### Get it!

In an `ocis` folder
```
$ git clone git@github.com:owncloud/ocis-konnectd.git
$ cd ocis-konnectd
$ make
```
This should give you a `bin/ocis-konnectd` binary. Try listing the help with `bin/ocis-konnectd --help`.

#### Set environment variables

Konnectd needs environment variables to configure the LDAP server:
```console
export LDAP_URI=ldap://192.168.1.100:9125
export LDAP_BINDDN="cn=admin,dc=example,dc=com"
export LDAP_BINDPW="its-a-secret"
export LDAP_BASEDN="dc=example,dc=com"
export LDAP_SCOPE=sub
export LDAP_LOGIN_ATTRIBUTE=uid
export LDAP_EMAIL_ATTRIBUTE=mail
export LDAP_NAME_ATTRIBUTE=givenName
export LDAP_UUID_ATTRIBUTE=uid
export LDAP_UUID_ATTRIBUTE_TYPE=text
export LDAP_FILTER="(objectClass=posixaccount)"
```
Don't forget to use an existing user and the correct password.

### Configure clients

Now we need to configure a client we can later use to configure the ownCloud 10 openidconnect app. In the `assets/identifier-registration.yaml` have:
```yaml
---

# OpenID Connect client registry.
clients:
  - id: ocis
    name: ownCloud Infinite Scale
    insecure: yes
    application_type: web
    redirect_uris:
      - https://cloud.example.com/apps/openidconnect/redirect
      - http://localhost:9100/oidc-callback.html
      - http://localhost:9100
      - http://localhost:9100/
```
You will need the `insecure: yes` if you are using self signed certificates.

Replace `cloud.example.com` in the redirect URI with your ownCloud 10 host and port.
Replace `localhost:9100` in the redirect URIs with your `ocis-web` host and port.

#### Run it!

You can now bring up `ocis-konnectd` with:
```console
$ bin/ocis-konnectd server --iss https://192.168.1.100:9130 --identifier-registration-conf assets/identifier-registration.yaml --signing-kid gen1-2020-02-27
```

`ocis-konnectd` needs to know
- `--iss https://192.168.1.100:9130` the issuer, which must be a reachable https endpoint. For testing an ip works. HTTPS is NOT optional. This url is exposed in the `https://192.168.1.100:9130/.well-known/openid-configuration` endpoint and clients need to be able to connect to it
- `--identifier-registration-conf assets/identifier-registration.yaml` the identifier-registration.yaml you created
- `--signing-kid gen1-2020-02-27` a signature key id, otherwise the jwks key has no name, which might cause problems with clients. a random key is ok, but it should change when the actual signing key changes.


#### Check it is up and running

1. Try getting the configuration:
```console
$ curl https://192.168.1.100:9130/.well-known/openid-configuration
```

2. Check if the login works at https://192.168.1.100:9130/signin/v1/identifier

> Note: If you later get a `Unable to find a key for (algorithm, kid):PS256, )` Error make sure you did set a `--signing-kid` when starting `ocis-konnectd` by checking it is present in https://192.168.1.100:9130/konnect/v1/jwks.json

### Patch owncloud

While the UserSession in ownCloud 10 is currently used to test all available IAuthModule implementations, it immediately logs out the user when an exception occurs. However, existing owncloud 10 instances use the oauth2 app to create Bearer tokens for mobile and desktop clients.

To give the openidconnect app a chance to verify the tokens we need to change the code a bit. See https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/37043 for a possible solution.

> Note: The PR is hot ... as in *younger than this list of steps*. And it messes with authentication. Use with caution.

### Install the owncloud 10 openidconnect app

In an owncloud 10 apps folder
```
$ git clone git@github.com:owncloud/openidconnect.git
$ cd openidconnect
$ composer install
```

After enabling the app configure it in `config/oidc.config.php`

```php
$CONFIG = [
  'openid-connect' => [
    'provider-url' => 'https://192.168.1.100:9130',
    'client-id' => 'ocis',
    'loginButtonName' => 'OpenId Connect @ Konnectd',
  ],
  'debug' => true, // if using self signed certificates
  // allow the different domains access to the ocs and webdav endpoints:
  'cors.allowed-domains' => [
    'https://cloud.example.com',
    'http://localhost:9100',
  ],
];
```

In the above configuration replace
- `provider-url` with the URL to your `ocis-konnectd` issuer
- `https://cloud.example.com` with the URL to your ownCloud 10 instance
- `http://localhost:9100` with the URL to your ownCloud Web instance

> Note: By default the openidconnect app will use the email of the user to match the user from the oidc userinfo endpoint with the ownCloud account. So make sure your users have a unique primary email.

## Next steps

Aside from the above todos these are the next steps
- tie it all together behind `ocis-proxy`
- create an `ocis bridge` command that runs all the ocis services in one step with a properly preconfigured `ocis-konnectd` `identifier-registration.yaml` file for `ownCloud Web` and the owncloud 10 `openidconnect` app, as well as a randomized `--signing-kid`.

Commit message:

commit 4aea7a997df5b3270d7a20b9034dd079edb531a2 Author: Ilja Neumann <ineumann@owncloud.com> Date:   Fri Jan 29 11:40:12 2021 +0100
    Rename konnectd to idp

ocis/deployment/bridge.md, after:

---
title: "Bridge"
date: 2020-02-27T20:35:00+01:00
weight: 30
geekdocRepo: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis
geekdocEditPath: edit/master/docs/ocis/deployment
geekdocFilePath: bridge.md
---

{{< toc >}}

We are planning to build a bridge from ownCloud 10 to ocis. The idea is to have a reverse proxy infront of ownCloud 10 that will forward requests to ownCloud 10 or ocis-reva, depending on the migration status of the logged in user.

This document is a work in progress of the current setup.

## Current status

Using ocis and the ownCloud 10 openidconnect and graphapi plugins it is possible today to introduce openid connect based authentication to existing instances. That is a prerequisite for migrating to ocis.

## How to do it

### Install the owncloud 10 graphapi app

In an owncloud 10 apps folder
```
$ git clone git@github.com:owncloud/graphapi.git
$ cd graphapi
$ composer install
```

### Enable the graphapi app

```
occ a:e graphapi
```

No configuration necessary. You can test with `curl`:
```console
$ curl https://cloud.example.com/index.php/apps/graphapi/v1.0/users -u admin | jq
Enter host password for user 'admin':
  % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
                                 Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
100   694  100   694    0     0   4283      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--  4283
{
  "value": [
    {
      "id": "admin",
      "displayName": "admin",
      "mail": null
    },
    {
      "id": "demo",
      "displayName": "Demo",
      "mail": null
    },
    ...

  ],
  "@odata.nextLink": "https://oc.butonic.de/apps/graphapi/v1.0/users?$top=10&$skip=10"
}
```

> Note: The MS graph api actually asks for `Bearer` auth, but in order to check users passwords during an LDAP bind we are exploiting ownClouds authentication implementation that will grant access when `Basic` auth is used. An LDAP Bind you may ask? Read on!

### Start ocis-glauth

We are going to use the above ownCloud 10 and graphapi app to turn it into the datastore for an LDAP proxy.

#### Grab it!

In an `ocis` folder
```
$ git clone git@github.com:owncloud/ocis-glauth.git
$ cd ocis-glauth
$ make
```
This should give you a `bin/ocis-glauth` binary. Try listing the help with `bin/ocis-glauth --help`.


#### Run it!

You need to point `ocis-glauth` to your owncloud domain:
```console
$ bin/ocis-glauth --log-level debug server --backend-datastore owncloud --backend-server https://cloud.example.com --backend-basedn dc=example,dc=com
```

`--log-level debug` is only used to generate more verbose output
`--backend-datastore owncloud` switches to tho owncloud datastore
`--backend-server https://cloud.example.com` is the url to an ownCloud instance with an enabled graphapi app
`--backend-basedn dc=example,dc=com` is used to construct the LDAP dn. The user `admin` will become `cn=admin,dc=example,dc=com`.

#### Check it is up and running

You should now be able to list accounts from your ownCloud 10 oc_accounts table using:
```console
$ ldapsearch -x -H ldap://localhost:9125 -b dc=example,dc=com -D "cn=admin,dc=example,dc=com" -W '(objectclass=posixaccount)'
```

Groups should work as well:
```console
$ ldapsearch -x -H ldap://localhost:9125 -b dc=example,dc=com -D "cn=admin,dc=example,dc=com" -W '(objectclass=posixgroup)'
```

> Note: This is currently a readonly implementation and minimal to the usecase of authenticating users with idp.

### Start ocis-web

#### Get it!

In an `ocis` folder
```
$ git clone git@github.com:owncloud/ocis.git
$ cd web
$ make
```
This should give you a `bin/web` binary. Try listing the help with `bin/web --help`.

#### Run it!

Point `ocis-web` to your owncloud domain and tell it where to find the openid connect issuing authority:
```console
$ bin/web server --web-config-server https://cloud.example.com --oidc-authority https://192.168.1.100:9130 --oidc-metadata-url https://192.168.1.100:9130/.well-known/openid-configuration --oidc-client-id ocis
```

`ocis-web` needs to know
- `--web-config-server https://cloud.example.com` is ownCloud url with webdav and ocs endpoints (oc10 or ocis)
- `--oidc-authority https://192.168.1.100:9130` the openid connect issuing authority, in our case `oidc-idp`, running on port 9130
- `--oidc-metadata-url https://192.168.1.100:9130/.well-known/openid-configuration` the openid connect configuration endpoint, typically the issuer host with `.well-known/openid-configuration`, but there are cases when another endpoint is used, eg. ping identity provides multiple endpoints to separate domains
- `--oidc-client-id ocis` the client id we will register later with `ocis-idp` in the `identifier-registration.yaml`

### Start ocis-idp

#### Get it!

In an `ocis` folder
```
$ git clone git@github.com:owncloud/ocis-idp.git
$ cd ocis-idp
$ make
```
This should give you a `bin/ocis-idp` binary. Try listing the help with `bin/ocis-idp --help`.

#### Set environment variables

Konnectd needs environment variables to configure the LDAP server:
```console
export LDAP_URI=ldap://192.168.1.100:9125
export LDAP_BINDDN="cn=admin,dc=example,dc=com"
export LDAP_BINDPW="its-a-secret"
export LDAP_BASEDN="dc=example,dc=com"
export LDAP_SCOPE=sub
export LDAP_LOGIN_ATTRIBUTE=uid
export LDAP_EMAIL_ATTRIBUTE=mail
export LDAP_NAME_ATTRIBUTE=givenName
export LDAP_UUID_ATTRIBUTE=uid
export LDAP_UUID_ATTRIBUTE_TYPE=text
export LDAP_FILTER="(objectClass=posixaccount)"
```
Don't forget to use an existing user and the correct password.

### Configure clients

Now we need to configure a client we can later use to configure the ownCloud 10 openidconnect app. In the `assets/identifier-registration.yaml` have:
```yaml
---

# OpenID Connect client registry.
clients:
  - id: ocis
    name: ownCloud Infinite Scale
    insecure: yes
    application_type: web
    redirect_uris:
      - https://cloud.example.com/apps/openidconnect/redirect
      - http://localhost:9100/oidc-callback.html
      - http://localhost:9100
      - http://localhost:9100/
```
You will need the `insecure: yes` if you are using self signed certificates.

Replace `cloud.example.com` in the redirect URI with your ownCloud 10 host and port.
Replace `localhost:9100` in the redirect URIs with your `ocis-web` host and port.

#### Run it!

You can now bring up `ocis-idp` with:
```console
$ bin/ocis-idp server --iss https://192.168.1.100:9130 --identifier-registration-conf assets/identifier-registration.yaml --signing-kid gen1-2020-02-27
```

`ocis-idp` needs to know
- `--iss https://192.168.1.100:9130` the issuer, which must be a reachable https endpoint. For testing an ip works. HTTPS is NOT optional. This url is exposed in the `https://192.168.1.100:9130/.well-known/openid-configuration` endpoint and clients need to be able to connect to it
- `--identifier-registration-conf assets/identifier-registration.yaml` the identifier-registration.yaml you created
- `--signing-kid gen1-2020-02-27` a signature key id, otherwise the jwks key has no name, which might cause problems with clients. a random key is ok, but it should change when the actual signing key changes.


#### Check it is up and running

1. Try getting the configuration:
```console
$ curl https://192.168.1.100:9130/.well-known/openid-configuration
```

2. Check if the login works at https://192.168.1.100:9130/signin/v1/identifier

> Note: If you later get a `Unable to find a key for (algorithm, kid):PS256, )` Error make sure you did set a `--signing-kid` when starting `ocis-idp` by checking it is present in https://192.168.1.100:9130/konnect/v1/jwks.json

### Patch owncloud

While the UserSession in ownCloud 10 is currently used to test all available IAuthModule implementations, it immediately logs out the user when an exception occurs. However, existing owncloud 10 instances use the oauth2 app to create Bearer tokens for mobile and desktop clients.

To give the openidconnect app a chance to verify the tokens we need to change the code a bit. See https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/37043 for a possible solution.

> Note: The PR is hot ... as in *younger than this list of steps*. And it messes with authentication. Use with caution.

### Install the owncloud 10 openidconnect app

In an owncloud 10 apps folder
```
$ git clone git@github.com:owncloud/openidconnect.git
$ cd openidconnect
$ composer install
```

After enabling the app configure it in `config/oidc.config.php`

```php
$CONFIG = [
  'openid-connect' => [
    'provider-url' => 'https://192.168.1.100:9130',
    'client-id' => 'ocis',
    'loginButtonName' => 'OpenId Connect @ Konnectd',
  ],
  'debug' => true, // if using self signed certificates
  // allow the different domains access to the ocs and webdav endpoints:
  'cors.allowed-domains' => [
    'https://cloud.example.com',
    'http://localhost:9100',
  ],
];
```

In the above configuration replace
- `provider-url` with the URL to your `ocis-idp` issuer
- `https://cloud.example.com` with the URL to your ownCloud 10 instance
- `http://localhost:9100` with the URL to your ownCloud Web instance

> Note: By default the openidconnect app will use the email of the user to match the user from the oidc userinfo endpoint with the ownCloud account. So make sure your users have a unique primary email.

## Next steps

Aside from the above todos these are the next steps
- tie it all together behind `ocis-proxy`
- create an `ocis bridge` command that runs all the ocis services in one step with a properly preconfigured `ocis-idp` `identifier-registration.yaml` file for `ownCloud Web` and the owncloud 10 `openidconnect` app, as well as a randomized `--signing-kid`.
