ocis/deployment/ocis_hello.md, before:

---
title: "oCIS with Hello extension"
date: 2020-10-12T14:04:00+01:00
weight: 24
geekdocRepo: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis
geekdocEditPath: edit/master/docs/ocis/deployment
geekdocFilePath: ocis_hello.md
---

{{< toc >}}

## Overview

- oCIS running behind Traefik as reverse proxy
- oCIS Hello extension runs beside the main oCIS stack and providing the Hello functionality
- Traefik generating self signed certificates for local setup or obtaining valid SSL certificates for a server setup

[Find this example on GitHub](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/tree/master/deployments/examples/ocis_hello)

The docker stack consists of 3 containers. One of them is Traefik, a proxy which is terminating SSL and forwards the requests to oCIS in the internal docker network.

The next container is oCIS itself in a configuration like the [oCIS with Traefik example]({{< ref "ocis_traefik" >}}), except that for this example a custom proxy and web UI configuration is used to enable the oCIS Hello extension.

The oCIS Hello extension is running in another container and enables you to use its' functionality from within ownCloud Web.

## Server Deployment

### Requirements

- Linux server with docker and docker-compose installed
- two domains set up and pointing to your server
  - ocis.\* for serving oCIS
  - traefik.\* for serving the Traefik dashboard

See also [example server setup]({{< ref "preparing_server" >}})

### Install oCIS and Traefik

- Clone oCIS repository

  `git clone https://github.com/owncloud/ocis.git`

- Go to the deployment example

  `cd ocis/deployment/examples/ocis_hello`

- Open the `.env` file in a text editor
  The file by default looks like this:

  ```bash
      # If you're on a internet facing server please comment out following line.
      # It skips certificate validation for various parts of oCIS and is needed if you use self signed certificates.
      INSECURE=true

      ### Traefik settings ###
      # Serve Treafik dashboard. Defaults to "false".
      TRAEFIK_DASHBOARD=
      # Domain of Traefik, where you can find the dashboard. Defaults to "traefik.owncloud.test"
      TRAEFIK_DOMAIN=
      # Basic authentication for the dashboard. Defaults to user "admin" and password "admin"
      TRAEFIK_BASIC_AUTH_USERS=
      # Email address for obtaining LetsEncrypt certificates, needs only be changed if this is a public facing server
      TRAEFIK_ACME_MAIL=

      ### oCIS settings ###
      # oCIS version. Defaults to "latest"
      OCIS_DOCKER_TAG=
      # Domain of oCIS, where you can find the frontend. Defaults to "ocis.owncloud.test"
      OCIS_DOMAIN=
      # IDP LDAP bind password. Must be changed in order to have a secure oCIS. Defaults to "idp".
      IDP_LDAP_BIND_PASSWORD=
      # Storage LDAP bind password. Must be changed in order to have a secure oCIS. Defaults to "reva".
      STORAGE_LDAP_BIND_PASSWORD=
      # JWT secret which is used for the storage provider. Must be changed in order to have a secure oCIS. Defaults to "Pive-Fumkiu4"
      OCIS_JWT_SECRET=
      # JWT secret which is used for uploads to create transfer tokens. Must be changed in order to have a secure oCIS. Defaults to "replace-me-with-a-transfer-secret"
      STORAGE_TRANSFER_SECRET=

      ### oCIS Hello settings ###
      # oCIS Hello version. Defaults to "latest"
      OCIS_HELLO_DOCKER_TAG=
  ```

  You are installing oCIS on a server and Traefik will obtain valid certificates for you so please remove `INSECURE=true` or set it to `false`.

  If you want to use the Traefik dashboard, set TRAEFIK_DASHBOARD to `true` (default is `false` and therefore not active). If you activate it, you must set a domain for the Traefik dashboard in `TRAEFIK_DOMAIN=` eg. `TRAEFIK_DOMAIN=traefik.owncloud.test`.

  The Traefik dashboard is secured by basic auth. Default credentials are the user `admin` with the password `admin`. To set your own credentials, generate a htpasswd (eg. by using [an online tool](https://htpasswdgenerator.de/) or a cli tool).

  Traefik will issue certificates with LetsEncrypt and therefore you must set an email address in `TRAEFIK_ACME_MAIL=`.

  By default oCIS will be started in the `latest` version. If you want to start a specific version of oCIS set the version to `OCIS_DOCKER_TAG=`. Available versions can be found on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/owncloud/ocis/tags?page=1&ordering=last_updated).

  Set your domain for the oCIS frontend in `OCIS_DOMAIN=`, eg. `OCIS_DOMAIN=ocis.owncloud.test`.

  You also must override three default secrets in `IDP_LDAP_BIND_PASSWORD`, `STORAGE_LDAP_BIND_PASSWORD` and `OCIS_JWT_SECRET` in order to secure your oCIS instance. Choose some random strings eg. from the output of `openssl rand -base64 32`. For more information see [secure an oCIS instance]({{< ref "./#secure-an-ocis-instance" >}}).

  By default the oCIS Hello extension will be started in the `latest` version. If you want to start a specific version of oCIS Hello set the version to `OCIS_HELLO_DOCKER_TAG=`. Available versions can be found on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/owncloud/ocis-hello/tags?page=1&ordering=last_updated).

  Now you have configured everything and can save the file.

- Start the docker stack

  `docker-compose up -d`

- You now can visit oCIS and are able to switch to the Hello extension by using the application switcher on the top right corner of ownCloud Web. You may need to wait some minutes until all services are fully ready, so make sure that you try to reload the pages from time to time.

## Local setup

For a more simple local ocis setup see [Getting started]({{< ref "../getting-started" >}})

This docker stack can also be run locally. One downside is that Traefik can not obtain valid SSL certificates and therefore will create self signed ones. This means that your browser will show scary warnings. Another downside is that you can not point DNS entries to your localhost. So you have to add static host entries to your computer.

On Linux and macOS you can add them to your `/etc/hosts` files like this:

```
127.0.0.1 ocis.owncloud.test
127.0.0.1 traefik.owncloud.test
```

After that you're ready to start the application stack:

`docker-compose up -d`

Open https://ocis.owncloud.test in your browser and accept the invalid certificate warning. You are now able to switch to the Hello extension by using the application switcher on the top right corner of ownCloud Web. You may need to wait some minutes until all services are fully ready, so make sure that you try to reload the pages from time to time.

Commit message:

commit c699e4b180a1b2723b597ece0bbbd9dc5ebe91ec Merge: ef83e3bb 2692c7db Author: Willy Kloucek <34452982+wkloucek@users.noreply.github.com> Date:   Tue Oct 5 15:14:52 2021 +0200
    Merge pull request #2577 from owncloud/add_machine_auth_to_secrets

    document machine auth api key

ocis/deployment/ocis_hello.md, after:

---
title: "oCIS with Hello extension"
date: 2020-10-12T14:04:00+01:00
weight: 24
geekdocRepo: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis
geekdocEditPath: edit/master/docs/ocis/deployment
geekdocFilePath: ocis_hello.md
---

{{< toc >}}

## Overview

- oCIS running behind Traefik as reverse proxy
- oCIS Hello extension runs beside the main oCIS stack and providing the Hello functionality
- Traefik generating self signed certificates for local setup or obtaining valid SSL certificates for a server setup

[Find this example on GitHub](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/tree/master/deployments/examples/ocis_hello)

The docker stack consists of 3 containers. One of them is Traefik, a proxy which is terminating SSL and forwards the requests to oCIS in the internal docker network.

The next container is oCIS itself in a configuration like the [oCIS with Traefik example]({{< ref "ocis_traefik" >}}), except that for this example a custom proxy and web UI configuration is used to enable the oCIS Hello extension.

The oCIS Hello extension is running in another container and enables you to use its' functionality from within ownCloud Web.

## Server Deployment

### Requirements

- Linux server with docker and docker-compose installed
- two domains set up and pointing to your server
  - ocis.\* for serving oCIS
  - traefik.\* for serving the Traefik dashboard

See also [example server setup]({{< ref "preparing_server" >}})

### Install oCIS and Traefik

- Clone oCIS repository

  `git clone https://github.com/owncloud/ocis.git`

- Go to the deployment example

  `cd ocis/deployment/examples/ocis_hello`

- Open the `.env` file in a text editor
  The file by default looks like this:

  ```bash
      # If you're on a internet facing server please comment out following line.
      # It skips certificate validation for various parts of oCIS and is needed if you use self signed certificates.
      INSECURE=true

      ### Traefik settings ###
      # Serve Treafik dashboard. Defaults to "false".
      TRAEFIK_DASHBOARD=
      # Domain of Traefik, where you can find the dashboard. Defaults to "traefik.owncloud.test"
      TRAEFIK_DOMAIN=
      # Basic authentication for the dashboard. Defaults to user "admin" and password "admin"
      TRAEFIK_BASIC_AUTH_USERS=
      # Email address for obtaining LetsEncrypt certificates, needs only be changed if this is a public facing server
      TRAEFIK_ACME_MAIL=

      ### oCIS settings ###
      # oCIS version. Defaults to "latest"
      OCIS_DOCKER_TAG=
      # Domain of oCIS, where you can find the frontend. Defaults to "ocis.owncloud.test"
      OCIS_DOMAIN=
      # IDP LDAP bind password. Must be changed in order to have a secure oCIS. Defaults to "idp".
      IDP_LDAP_BIND_PASSWORD=
      # Storage LDAP bind password. Must be changed in order to have a secure oCIS. Defaults to "reva".
      STORAGE_LDAP_BIND_PASSWORD=
      # JWT secret which is used for the storage provider. Must be changed in order to have a secure oCIS. Defaults to "Pive-Fumkiu4"
      OCIS_JWT_SECRET=
      # JWT secret which is used for uploads to create transfer tokens. Must be changed in order to have a secure oCIS. Defaults to "replace-me-with-a-transfer-secret"
      STORAGE_TRANSFER_SECRET=
      # Machine auth api key secret. Must be changed in order to have a secure oCIS. Defaults to "change-me-please"
      OCIS_MACHINE_AUTH_API_KEY=

      ### oCIS Hello settings ###
      # oCIS Hello version. Defaults to "latest"
      OCIS_HELLO_DOCKER_TAG=
  ```

  You are installing oCIS on a server and Traefik will obtain valid certificates for you so please remove `INSECURE=true` or set it to `false`.

  If you want to use the Traefik dashboard, set TRAEFIK_DASHBOARD to `true` (default is `false` and therefore not active). If you activate it, you must set a domain for the Traefik dashboard in `TRAEFIK_DOMAIN=` eg. `TRAEFIK_DOMAIN=traefik.owncloud.test`.

  The Traefik dashboard is secured by basic auth. Default credentials are the user `admin` with the password `admin`. To set your own credentials, generate a htpasswd (eg. by using [an online tool](https://htpasswdgenerator.de/) or a cli tool).

  Traefik will issue certificates with LetsEncrypt and therefore you must set an email address in `TRAEFIK_ACME_MAIL=`.

  By default oCIS will be started in the `latest` version. If you want to start a specific version of oCIS set the version to `OCIS_DOCKER_TAG=`. Available versions can be found on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/owncloud/ocis/tags?page=1&ordering=last_updated).

  Set your domain for the oCIS frontend in `OCIS_DOMAIN=`, eg. `OCIS_DOMAIN=ocis.owncloud.test`.

  You also must override three default secrets in `IDP_LDAP_BIND_PASSWORD`, `STORAGE_LDAP_BIND_PASSWORD` and `OCIS_JWT_SECRET` in order to secure your oCIS instance. Choose some random strings eg. from the output of `openssl rand -base64 32`. For more information see [secure an oCIS instance]({{< ref "./#secure-an-ocis-instance" >}}).

  By default the oCIS Hello extension will be started in the `latest` version. If you want to start a specific version of oCIS Hello set the version to `OCIS_HELLO_DOCKER_TAG=`. Available versions can be found on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/owncloud/ocis-hello/tags?page=1&ordering=last_updated).

  Now you have configured everything and can save the file.

- Start the docker stack

  `docker-compose up -d`

- You now can visit oCIS and are able to switch to the Hello extension by using the application switcher on the top right corner of ownCloud Web. You may need to wait some minutes until all services are fully ready, so make sure that you try to reload the pages from time to time.

## Local setup

For a more simple local ocis setup see [Getting started]({{< ref "../getting-started" >}})

This docker stack can also be run locally. One downside is that Traefik can not obtain valid SSL certificates and therefore will create self signed ones. This means that your browser will show scary warnings. Another downside is that you can not point DNS entries to your localhost. So you have to add static host entries to your computer.

On Linux and macOS you can add them to your `/etc/hosts` files like this:

```
127.0.0.1 ocis.owncloud.test
127.0.0.1 traefik.owncloud.test
```

After that you're ready to start the application stack:

`docker-compose up -d`

Open https://ocis.owncloud.test in your browser and accept the invalid certificate warning. You are now able to switch to the Hello extension by using the application switcher on the top right corner of ownCloud Web. You may need to wait some minutes until all services are fully ready, so make sure that you try to reload the pages from time to time.
