---
title: Frontend
date: 2024-09-24T00:44:03.873239641Z
weight: 20
geekdocRepo: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis
geekdocEditPath: edit/master/services/frontend
geekdocFilePath: README.md
geekdocCollapseSection: true
---

<!-- Do not edit this file, it is autogenerated. Edit the service README.md instead -->

## Abstract


The frontend service translates various owncloud related HTTP APIs to CS3 requests.


## Table of Contents

* [Endpoints Overview](#endpoints-overview)
  * [appprovider](#appprovider)
  * [archiver](#archiver)
  * [datagateway](#datagateway)
  * [ocs](#ocs)
    * [Event Handler](#event-handler)
  * [Sharing](#sharing)
* [Scalability](#scalability)
* [Define Read-Only Attributes](#define-read-only-attributes)
* [Caching](#caching)
  * [Auto-Accept Shares](#auto-accept-shares)
* [Passwords](#passwords)
  * [The Password Policy](#the-password-policy)
  * [The Password Policy Capability](#the-password-policy-capability)
  * [Password Enforcement for all Public Links](#password-enforcement-for-all-public-links)
  * [Password Enforcement for Writeable Public Links](#password-enforcement-for-writeable-public-links)
* [Example Yaml Config](#example-yaml-config)

## Endpoints Overview

Currently, the frontend service handles requests for three functionalities, which are `appprovider`, `archiver`, `datagateway` and `ocs`.

### appprovider

The appprovider endpoint, by default `/app`, forwards HTTP requests to the CS3 [App Registry API](https://cs3org.github.io/cs3apis/#cs3.app.registry.v1beta1.RegistryAPI)

### archiver

The archiver endpoint, by default `/archiver`, implements zip and tar download for collections of files. It will internally use the CS3 API to initiate downloads and then stream the individual files as part of a compressed file.

### datagateway

The datagateway endpoint, by default `/data`, forwards file up- and download requests to the correct CS3 data provider. OCIS starts a dataprovider as part of the storage-* services. The routing happens based on the JWT that was created by a storage provider in response to an `InitiateFileDownload` or `InitiateFileUpload` request.

### ocs

The ocs endpoint, by default `/ocs`, implements the ownCloud 10 Open Collaboration Services API by translating it into CS3 API requests. It can handle users, groups, capabilities and also implements the files sharing functionality on top of CS3. The `/ocs/v[12].php/cloud/user/signing-key` is currently handled by the dedicated [ocs](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/tree/master/services/ocs) service.

#### Event Handler

The `frontend` service contains an eventhandler for handling `ocs` related events. As of now, it only listens to the `ShareCreated` event.

### Sharing

Aggregating share information is one of the most time consuming operations in OCIS. The service fetches a list of either received or created shares and has to stat every resource individually. While stats are fast, the default behavior scales linearly with the number of shares.

To save network trips the sharing implementation can cache the stat requests with an in memory cache or in Redis. It will shorten the response time by the network round-trip overhead at the cost of the API only eventually being updated.

Setting `FRONTEND_OCS_RESOURCE_INFO_CACHE_TTL=60` would cache the stat info for 60 seconds. Increasing this value makes sense for large deployments with thousands of active users that keep the cache up to date. Low frequency usage scenarios should not expect a noticeable improvement.

## Scalability

While the frontend service does not persist any data, it does cache information about files and filesystem (`Stat()`) responses and user information. Therefore, multiple instances of this service can be spawned in a bigger deployment like when using container orchestration with Kubernetes, when configuring `FRONTEND_OCS_RESOURCE_INFO_CACHE_STORE` and the related config options.

## Define Read-Only Attributes

A lot of user management is made via the standardized libregraph API. Depending on how the system is configured, there might be some user attributes that an ocis instance admin can't change because of properties coming from an external LDAP server, or similar. This can be the case when the ocis admin is not the LDAP admin. To ease life for admins, there are hints as capabilites telling the frontend which attributes are read-only to enable a different optical representation like being grayed out. To configure these hints, use the environment variable `FRONTEND_READONLY_USER_ATTRIBUTES`, which takes a comma separated list of attributes, see the envvar for supported values.

You can find more details regarding available attributes at the [libre-graph-api openapi-spec](https://github.com/owncloud/libre-graph-api/blob/main/api/openapi-spec/v1.0.yaml) and on [owncloud.dev](https://owncloud.dev/libre-graph-api/).

## Caching

The `frontend` service can use a configured store via `FRONTEND_OCS_STAT_CACHE_STORE`. Possible stores are:
  -   `memory`: Basic in-memory store and the default.
  -   `redis-sentinel`: Stores data in a configured Redis Sentinel cluster.
  -   `nats-js-kv`: Stores data using key-value-store feature of [nats jetstream](https://docs.nats.io/nats-concepts/jetstream/key-value-store)
  -   `noop`: Stores nothing. Useful for testing. Not recommended in production environments.
  -   `ocmem`: Advanced in-memory store allowing max size. (deprecated)
  -   `redis`: Stores data in a configured Redis cluster. (deprecated)
  -   `etcd`: Stores data in a configured etcd cluster. (deprecated)
  -   `nats-js`: Stores data using object-store feature of [nats jetstream](https://docs.nats.io/nats-concepts/jetstream/obj_store) (deprecated)

Other store types may work but are not supported currently.

Note: The service can only be scaled if not using `memory` store and the stores are configured identically over all instances!

Note that if you have used one of the deprecated stores, you should reconfigure to one of the supported ones as the deprecated stores will be removed in a later version.

Store specific notes:
  -   When using `redis-sentinel`, the Redis master to use is configured via e.g. `OCIS_CACHE_STORE_NODES` in the form of `<sentinel-host>:<sentinel-port>/<redis-master>` like `10.10.0.200:26379/mymaster`.
  -   When using `nats-js-kv` it is recommended to set `OCIS_CACHE_STORE_NODES` to the same value as `OCIS_EVENTS_ENDPOINT`. That way the cache uses the same nats instance as the event bus.
  -   When using the `nats-js-kv` store, it is possible to set `OCIS_CACHE_DISABLE_PERSISTENCE` to instruct nats to not persist cache data on disc.

### Auto-Accept Shares

When setting the `FRONTEND_AUTO_ACCEPT_SHARES` to `true`, all incoming shares will be accepted automatically. Users can overwrite this setting individually in their profile.

## Passwords

### The Password Policy

Note that the password policy currently impacts only **public link password validation**.

In Infinite Scale, the password policy is always enabled because the max-length restriction is always applying and should be taken into account by the clients.

With the password policy, mandatory criteria for the password can be defined via the environment variables listed below.

Generally, a password can contain any UTF-8 characters, however some characters are regarded as special since they are not used in ordinary texts. Which characters should be treated as special is defined by "The OWASP® Foundation" [password-special-characters](https://owasp.org/www-community/password-special-characters) (between double quotes): " !"#$%&'()*+,-./:;<=>?@[\]^_`{|}~"

The validation against the banned passwords list can be configured via a text file with words separated by new lines. If a user tries to set a password listed in the banned passwords list, the password can not be used (is invalid) even if the other mandatory criteria are passed. The admin can define the path of the banned passwords list file. If the file doesn't exist in a location, Infinite Scale tries to load a file from the `OCIS_CONFIG_DIR/OCIS_PASSWORD_POLICY_BANNED_PASSWORDS_LIST`. An option will be enabled when the file has been loaded successfully.

Following environment variables can be set to define the password policy behaviour:

-   `OCIS_PASSWORD_POLICY_DISABLED`
Disable the password policy
-   `OCIS_PASSWORD_POLICY_MIN_CHARACTERS`
Define the minimum password length.
-   `OCIS_PASSWORD_POLICY_MIN_LOWERCASE_CHARACTERS`
Define the minimum number of uppercase letters.
-   `OCIS_PASSWORD_POLICY_MIN_UPPERCASE_CHARACTERS`
Define the minimum number of lowercase letters.
-   `OCIS_PASSWORD_POLICY_MIN_DIGITS`
Define the minimum number of digits.
-   `OCIS_PASSWORD_POLICY_MIN_SPECIAL_CHARACTERS`
Define the minimum number of special characters.
-   `OCIS_PASSWORD_POLICY_BANNED_PASSWORDS_LIST`
Path to the 'banned passwords list' file.

These variables are global ocis variables because they are used not only in the frontend service, but also in the sharing service.

Note that a password can have a maximum length of **72 bytes**. Depending on the alphabet used, a character is encoded by 1 to 4 bytes, defining the maximum length of a password indirectly. While US-ASCII will only need one byte, Latin alphabets and also Greek or Cyrillic ones need two bytes. Three bytes are needed for characters in Chinese, Japanese and Korean etc.

### The Password Policy Capability

The capabilities endpoint (e.g. https://ocis.test/ocs/v1.php/cloud/capabilities?format=json) gives you following capabilities which are relevant for the password policy:

```json
{
  "ocs": {
    "data": {
      "capabilities": {
        "password_policy": {
          "min_characters": 10,
          "max_characters": 72,
          "min_lowercase_characters": 1,
          "min_uppercase_characters": 2,
          "min_digits": 1,
          "min_special_characters": 1
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Password Enforcement for all Public Links

For public accessible shares, independent if read only or writable, a password is enforced. To change this requirement, set the following environment variable to `false`:

`OCIS_SHARING_PUBLIC_SHARE_MUST_HAVE_PASSWORD`

### Password Enforcement for Writeable Public Links

For public accessible writable shares, a password can be enforced. To change the current setting, set the following environment variable to `true`:

`OCIS_SHARING_PUBLIC_WRITEABLE_SHARE_MUST_HAVE_PASSWORD`

Note that changing this environment variable only makes sense if\
`OCIS_SHARING_PUBLIC_SHARE_MUST_HAVE_PASSWORD`\
is set to `false`.
## Example Yaml Config
{{< include file="services/_includes/frontend-config-example.yaml"  language="yaml" >}}

{{< include file="services/_includes/frontend_configvars.md" >}}

