docs/_index.md, before:

---
title: ownCloud
---

{{< toc >}}

## Developer Documentation

Welcome to our developer documentation. Here you can find developer documentation on:

- [oCIS](https://owncloud.github.io/ocis/) server
- oCIS extensions
- Clients, like:
    - [ownCloud Web](https://github.com/owncloud/web) - the new web frontend for oCIS and ownCloud
    - [ownCloud Android app](https://github.com/owncloud/android)
    - [ownCloud iOS app](https://github.com/owncloud/ios-app)
    - [ownCloud Desktop Syncing Client](https://github.com/owncloud/client)
- Integrations

## We love open source

The oCIS server is Apache v2 licensed.
The lower storage layer of oCIS is defined by the CS3 APIs and implemented in the REVA project. Our goal is to develop the CS3 APIs to an open standard and collaborate on the open source REVA reference implementation for CS3 APIs.

You can also find all client sources on github.

## Join us

The oCIS server repository on github is a good entry point for you to join the project. But we also develop clients for iOS, Android, Desktop and Web.

For communication on development you can join our public chat [talk.owncloud.com](https://talk.owncloud.com)

If you want to help and improve ownCloud or oCIS, start coding or open issues on github in the related repository.

We are very happy to hear your feedback and ideas!

Commit message:

Change (ocis,OCIS) to oCIS, unify GitHub branding

docs/_index.md, after:

---
title: ownCloud
---

{{< toc >}}

## Developer Documentation

Welcome to our developer documentation. Here you can find developer documentation on:

- [oCIS](https://owncloud.github.io/ocis/) server
- oCIS extensions
- Clients, like:
    - [ownCloud Web](https://github.com/owncloud/web) - the new web frontend for oCIS and ownCloud
    - [ownCloud Android app](https://github.com/owncloud/android)
    - [ownCloud iOS app](https://github.com/owncloud/ios-app)
    - [ownCloud Desktop Syncing Client](https://github.com/owncloud/client)
- Integrations

## We love open source

The oCIS server is Apache v2 licensed.
The lower storage layer of oCIS is defined by the CS3 APIs and implemented in the REVA project. Our goal is to develop the CS3 APIs to an open standard and collaborate on the open source REVA reference implementation for CS3 APIs.

You can also find all client sources on GitHub.

## Join us

The oCIS server repository on GitHub is a good entry point for you to join the project. But we also develop clients for iOS, Android, Desktop and Web.

For communication on development you can join our public chat [talk.owncloud.com](https://talk.owncloud.com)

If you want to help and improve ownCloud or oCIS, start coding or open issues on GitHub in the related repository.

We are very happy to hear your feedback and ideas!
