# UnifiedRolePermission

Represents a collection of allowed resource actions and the conditions that must be met for the action to be allowed. Resource actions are tasks that can be performed on a resource. For example, an application resource may support create, update, delete, and reset password actions. 

## Properties

Name | Type | Description | Notes
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
**allowedResourceActions** | **Array&lt;string&gt;** | Set of tasks that can be performed on a resource. Required.  The following is the schema for resource actions:  &#x60;&#x60;&#x60;    {Namespace}/{Entity}/{PropertySet}/{Action} &#x60;&#x60;&#x60;   For example: &#x60;libre.graph/applications/credentials/update&#x60;   * *{Namespace}* - The services that exposes the task. For example, all tasks in libre graph use the namespace &#x60;libre.graph&#x60;.  * *{Entity}* - The logical features or components exposed by the service in libre graph. For example, &#x60;applications&#x60;, &#x60;servicePrincipals&#x60;, or &#x60;groups&#x60;.  * *{PropertySet}* - Optional. The specific properties or aspects of the entity for which access is being granted.    For example, &#x60;libre.graph/applications/authentication/read&#x60; grants the ability to read the reply URL, logout URL,    and implicit flow property on the **application** object in libre graph. The following are reserved names for common property sets:    * &#x60;allProperties&#x60; - Designates all properties of the entity, including privileged properties.      Examples include &#x60;libre.graph/applications/allProperties/read&#x60; and &#x60;libre.graph/applications/allProperties/update&#x60;.    * &#x60;basic&#x60; - Designates common read properties but excludes privileged ones.      For example, &#x60;libre.graph/applications/basic/update&#x60; includes the ability to update standard properties like display name.    * &#x60;standard&#x60; - Designates common update properties but excludes privileged ones.      For example, &#x60;libre.graph/applications/standard/read&#x60;.  * *{Actions}* - The operations being granted. In most circumstances, permissions should be expressed in terms of CRUD operations or allTasks. Actions include:    * &#x60;create&#x60; - The ability to create a new instance of the entity.    * &#x60;read&#x60; - The ability to read a given property set (including allProperties).    * &#x60;update&#x60; - The ability to update a given property set (including allProperties).    * &#x60;delete&#x60; - The ability to delete a given entity.    * &#x60;allTasks&#x60; - Represents all CRUD operations (create, read, update, and delete).   Following the CS3 API we can represent the CS3 permissions by mapping them to driveItem properties or relations like this:  | [CS3 ResourcePermission](https://cs3org.github.io/cs3apis/#cs3.storage.provider.v1beta1.ResourcePermissions) | action | comment |  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------ | ------- |  | &#x60;stat&#x60; | &#x60;libre.graph/driveItem/basic/read&#x60; | &#x60;basic&#x60; because it does not include versions or trashed items |  | &#x60;get_quota&#x60; | &#x60;libre.graph/driveItem/quota/read&#x60; | read only the &#x60;quota&#x60; property |  | &#x60;get_path&#x60; | &#x60;libre.graph/driveItem/path/read&#x60; | read only the &#x60;path&#x60; property |  | &#x60;move&#x60; | &#x60;libre.graph/driveItem/path/update&#x60; | allows updating the &#x60;path&#x60; property of a CS3 resource |  | &#x60;delete&#x60; | &#x60;libre.graph/driveItem/standard/delete&#x60; | &#x60;standard&#x60; because deleting is a common update operation |  | &#x60;list_container&#x60; | &#x60;libre.graph/driveItem/children/read&#x60; | |  | &#x60;create_container&#x60; | &#x60;libre.graph/driveItem/children/create&#x60; | |  | &#x60;initiate_file_download&#x60; | &#x60;libre.graph/driveItem/content/read&#x60; | &#x60;content&#x60; is the property read when initiating a download |  | &#x60;initiate_file_upload&#x60; | &#x60;libre.graph/driveItem/upload/create&#x60; | &#x60;uploads&#x60; are a separate property. postprocessing creates the &#x60;content&#x60; |  | &#x60;add_grant&#x60; | &#x60;libre.graph/driveItem/permissions/create&#x60; | |  | &#x60;list_grant&#x60; | &#x60;libre.graph/driveItem/permissions/read&#x60; | |  | &#x60;update_grant&#x60; | &#x60;libre.graph/driveItem/permissions/update&#x60; | |  | &#x60;remove_grant&#x60; | &#x60;libre.graph/driveItem/permissions/delete&#x60; | |  | &#x60;deny_grant&#x60; | &#x60;libre.graph/driveItem/permissions/deny&#x60; | uses a non CRUD action &#x60;deny&#x60; |  | &#x60;list_file_versions&#x60; | &#x60;libre.graph/driveItem/versions/read&#x60; | &#x60;versions&#x60; is a &#x60;driveItemVersion&#x60; collection |  | &#x60;restore_file_version&#x60; | &#x60;libre.graph/driveItem/versions/update&#x60; | the only &#x60;update&#x60; action is restore |  | &#x60;list_recycle&#x60; | &#x60;libre.graph/driveItem/deleted/read&#x60; | reading a driveItem &#x60;deleted&#x60; property implies listing |  | &#x60;restore_recycle_item&#x60; | &#x60;libre.graph/driveItem/deleted/update&#x60; | the only &#x60;update&#x60; action is restore |  | &#x60;purge_recycle&#x60; | &#x60;libre.graph/driveItem/deleted/delete&#x60; | allows purging deleted &#x60;driveItems&#x60; |   Managing drives would be a different entity. A space manager role could be written as &#x60;libre.graph/drive/permission/allTasks&#x60;.  | [optional] [default to undefined]
**condition** | **string** | Optional constraints that must be met for the permission to be effective. Not supported for custom roles.  Conditions define constraints that must be met. For example, a requirement that target resource must have a certain property. The following are the supported conditions:  * Drive: &#x60;exists @Resource.Drive&#x60; - The target resource must be a drive/space * Folder: &#x60;exists @Resource.Folder&#x60; - The target resource must be a folder * File: &#x60;exists @Resource.File&#x60; - The target resource must be a file  The following is an example of a role permission with a condition that the target resource is a folder: &#x60;&#x60;&#x60;json   \&quot;rolePermissions\&quot;: [       {           \&quot;allowedResourceActions\&quot;: [               \&quot;libre.graph/applications/basic/update\&quot;,               \&quot;libre.graph/applications/credentials/update\&quot;           ],           \&quot;condition\&quot;:  \&quot;exists @Resource.File\&quot;       }   ] &#x60;&#x60;&#x60; Conditions aren\&#39;t supported for custom roles.  | [optional] [default to undefined]

## Example

```typescript
import { UnifiedRolePermission } from './api';

const instance: UnifiedRolePermission = {
    allowedResourceActions,
    condition,
};
```

[[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to README]](../README.md)
